# Chapter 3 Karma Yoga. (The Yoga of action)

Karma yoga is a path to reach moksha (spiritual liberation) through work. It is rightful action without being attached to fruits or being manipulated by what the results might be, a dedication to one's duty, and trying one's best while being neutral to rewards or outcomes such as success or failure.

Principal of karma yoga
`Right attitude` It’s not what you do that counts, it’s the attitude while doing it that determines if a job is a Karma Yoga job

`Right Motive.` It is not what you do that counts but your real motive behind it. Your motive must be pure. Swami Sivananda says: “Man generally plans to get the fruits of his works before he starts any kind of work. The mind is so framed that it cannot think of any kind of work without remuneration or reward

`Do Your Duty`. 
Do Your Best.
Do not hold back because of fear of effort or because of fear of criticism. Do not work in a sloppy manner just because no one is watching or because you feel the work is not for you. Give your best. Try to do such actions that can bring maximum good and minimum evil. Do Karma Yoga increasingly.

Give up Results. 
Serve God or the Self in All. Do to others what you would like to be done to yourself. Love thy neighbor as thyself. Adapt, adjust, accommodate. Bear insult, bear injury. Unity in Diversity. We are parts of the same body. Practice humility in action. Beware of power, fame, name, praise, censure.
Follow the Discipline of the Job
Each job is a teacher of some sort. You can learn different skills by doing different jobs. Each job has different requirements in terms of time, degree of concentration, skills or experience, emotional input, physical energy, will. Try to do whatever job you are doing, well.

What are the characteristics of Karma Yoga?
A karma-yogi employee displays five characteristics which are, 
a) emphasis on process than outcome
b) obligation towards others
c) to act with equanimity
d) seek perfection/excellence in action
e) to regard work as an offering to higher Self (Ishvarapranidhana).

Karma generally means action. We are bound to perform action and the only option available for a human 
is the choice of action. The other important aspect of action is the quality of action which we perform. 

Karma also means expression. The way we express our inner feelings. 

The difference between Karma and Karma Yoga are:
Karma Yoga means not to postpone our actions. 

When we perform mere action per se it leads to unproductive and wastage of time and energy.
 When the same action is performed in a Karma Yoga way then it leads to high productivity in our action and proper
  usage of time and energy. Our actions become dynamic and very skillful. 

Karma Yoga is not merely about acting as being born on the earth means you have to act, but is about perfecting your actions. Few tips to do the same are:
- Do actions that are beneficial to others
- Do actions that bring joy, calm, serenity
- Do actions that don't cause stress
- Enjoy every action you do
